# Merge Sorted Array
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-sorted-array/)

## Problem Description

You are given two integer arrays nums1 and nums2, sorted in non-decreasing order, and two integers m and n, representing the number of elements in nums1 and nums2 respectively.

Merge nums1 and nums2 into a single array sorted in non-decreasing order.

The final sorted array should not be returned by the function, but instead be stored inside the array nums1. To accommodate this, nums1 has a length of m + n, where the first m elements denote the elements that should be merged, and the last n elements are set to 0 and should be ignored. nums2 has a length of n.
 
## Example & constraints
Example 1:
```
Input: nums1 = [1,2,3,0,0,0], m = 3, nums2 = [2,5,6], n = 3
Output: [1,2,2,3,5,6]
```
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1,2,3] and [2,5,6].
The result of the merge is [1,2,2,3,5,6] with the underlined elements coming from nums1.
Example 2:
```
Input: nums1 = [1], m = 1, nums2 = [], n = 0
Output: [1]
```
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1] and [].
The result of the merge is [1].
Example 3:
```
Input: nums1 = [0], m = 0, nums2 = [1], n = 1
Output: [1]
```
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [] and [1].
The result of the merge is [1].

Note that because m = 0, there are no elements in nums1. The 0 is only there to ensure the merge result can fit in nums1.

Constraints:

1.nums1.length == m + n
2.nums2.length == n
3.0 <= m, n <= 200
4.1 <= m + n <= 200
5.-109 <= nums1[i], nums2[j] <= 109

## Solution
### Solution 1: Two Pointers
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    void merge(vector<int>& nums1, int m, vector<int>& nums2, int n) {
        int index = m + n -1;
        int i = m-1;
        int j = n-1;
        //sorted min(i,j) elements
        while(i>=0 && j>=0){
            if(nums1[i]>nums2[j]){
                nums1[index] = nums1[i];
                i--;
            }
            else{
                nums1[index] = nums2[j];
                j--;
            }
            index--;
        }
        
        while(i>=0){
            nums1[index] = nums1[i];
            index--;i--;
        }
        while(j>=0){
            nums1[index] = nums2[j];
            index--;j--;
        }
    }
};
``` 
### Solution 2: Sort
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    void merge(vector<int>& nums1, int m, vector<int>& nums2, int n) {
        for(int i=m;i<m+n;i++){
            nums1[i] = nums2[i-m];
        }
        sort(nums1.begin(),nums1.end());
    }
};
``` 
## Explanation
*  there are two ways to solve this problem,
one is to use the `sort` function,but it is not the best way,beacuse of the time complexity is $O((n+m)log(n+m))$.
*  the onther ways is to use the `two pointers` to solve this problem,beacuse of the time complexity is $O(n+m)$.
*  we use i and j to point the last element of nums1 and nums2,then we compare the element of nums1 and nums2,then we put the larger element to the end of nums1.
*  we continue to do this until i and j are both less than 0.
## Time Complexity
*  $O(n+m)$ 