Problem-Solving/Online-Judge/LeetCode/14. Longest Common Prefix.md, before:

# Longest Common Prefix
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix/)

## Problem Description

Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of strings.

If there is no common prefix, return an empty string "".

## Example

```cpp
Input: strs = ["flower","flow","flight"]
Output: "fl"
```

```cpp
Input: strs = ["dog","racecar","car"]
Output: ""
```

## Solution
Refer to Akbar's solution
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    string longestCommonPrefix(vector<string>& x) {
        sort(x.begin(),x.end());
        int size = x.size();
        string prefix="";
        string first = x[0] , last = x[size-1];

        for(int l=0;l<min(first.size(),last.size());l++){
            if(first[l]!=last[l])return prefix;
            prefix+=first[l];
        }

        return prefix;
    }
};
```

## Explanation
*  需要`sort`的原因，是因為array在字串中的排序是`alphabetical order`，所以首位的字串和末位的字串相差最大，可以用來找出`edge case`
*  去除了`edge case`後，代表首位字串與末位字串的首個字母必相同，接著開始比較prefix的長度即可

## Time Complexity
*  $O(N logN + M)$

Commit message:

2026/1/9 12:46 revised the example of 14.longest common prefix.md

Problem-Solving/Online-Judge/LeetCode/14. Longest Common Prefix.md, after:

# Longest Common Prefix
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix/)

## Problem Description

Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of strings.

If there is no common prefix, return an empty string "".

## Example


```
Input: strs = ["flower","flow","flight"]
Output: "fl"
```

```
Input: strs = ["dog","racecar","car"]
Output: ""
```
Explanation: There is no common prefix among the input strings.

## Solution
Refer to Akbar's solution
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    string longestCommonPrefix(vector<string>& x) {
        sort(x.begin(),x.end());
        int size = x.size();
        string prefix="";
        string first = x[0] , last = x[size-1];

        for(int l=0;l<min(first.size(),last.size());l++){
            if(first[l]!=last[l])return prefix;
            prefix+=first[l];
        }

        return prefix;
    }
};
```

## Explanation
*  需要`sort`的原因，是因為array在字串中的排序是`alphabetical order`，所以首位的字串和末位的字串相差最大，可以用來找出`edge case`
*  去除了`edge case`後，代表首位字串與末位字串的首個字母必相同，接著開始比較prefix的長度即可

## Time Complexity
*  $O(N logN + M)$
