# Remove Element
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-element/)

## Problem Description

Given an integer array nums and an integer val, remove all occurrences of val in nums in-place. The order of the elements may be changed. Then return the number of elements in nums which are not equal to val.

Consider the number of elements in nums which are not equal to val be k, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

Change the array nums such that the first k elements of nums contain the elements which are not equal to val. The remaining elements of nums are not important as well as the size of nums.
Return k.
Custom Judge:

The judge will test your solution with the following code:
```c++
int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int val = ...; // Value to remove
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length.
                            // It is sorted with no values equaling val.

int k = removeElement(nums, val); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
sort(nums, 0, k); // Sort the first k elements of nums
for (int i = 0; i < actualLength; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
```
If all assertions pass, then your solution will be accepted.
 
## Example & constraints
Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3
Output: 2, nums = [2,2,_,_]
```
Explanation: Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2
Output: 5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3,_,_,_]
```
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 0, 1, 3, and 4.
Note that the five elements can be returned in any order.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
 

Constraints:

1. 0 <= nums.length <= 100
2. 0 <= nums[i] <= 50
3. 0 <= val <= 100


## Solution
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int removeElement(vector<int>& nums, int val) {
        int count=0,slow=0;
        for(int fast=0;fast<nums.size();fast++){
            if(nums[fast]!=val){nums[slow]=nums[fast];slow++;count++;}
        }
        return count;
    }
};
``` 
## Explanation
*  This is one of the most challenging problems I've encountered. While the code appears short, it involves `two-pointer operations (slow and fast pointers)`. The problem asks us to remove elements with the specified `val` from `nums` and return the count of `remaining` elements. However, there's a crucial point: **It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores)**. I initially overthought this, but the key is simply to move the `remaining` elements to the front. Therefore, both pointers should start at the beginning.
## Time Complexity
*  $O(N)$ 
